This directory will be the work I have for the science fair project I hope to do with some 
high-school students. The project will be an answer to this question: 


	How many supernovae need to go off in the galaxy per unit time for the average location in the galaxy to be habitable?


==Implementation==

	Take a number N supernovae going off randomly, with mean time separation every T years. I imagine the explosion time would be sampled from 
an exponential distribution with time constant T. T will be a free parameter of this fit. Every time a supernova goes off, its location in the 
galaxy is randomly chosen from a uniform distribution of locations in the galaxy. Potential next step: make this some non-uniform PDF of galaxy 
locations, favoring star-forming regions or whatever.

	Then, sample from a distribution of light curves for each supernova, and calculate the flux received from that supernova at some given 
location in the galaxy. Do this for all supernovae going off in the galaxy, accounting for the distance to each supernova, and where along its light 
curve the supernova is. 

	'The average location in the galaxy' could be interpreted to mean: the average distance to the nearest supernova in the galaxy, when 
supernovae are distributed throughout the galaxy. So the question is-how many supernovae need to go off in the Milky Way for a planet at this 
distance to be habitable. Potential next step: talk specifically about the Earth's location in the galaxy, and couple it with using a non-uniform PDF 
of galaxy locations for the supernovae. Potential next next step: also account for dust extinction within the galaxy accounting for Earth's location 
in the galaxy and the distribution of SNe locations.

	Habitability can be defined in many different ways, of differing complexities. We should stick with the simplest conception-we want the flux 
received by this planet to be equal to the stellar flux we get from the Sun. From the Sun, we get a flux of 1361 W/m^2. Potential next step: use a 
more complex definition of habitability-we could use an atmospheric model for the planet and try to make there be water on the surface. 


In short, in the Milky Way galaxy, how many supernovae would have to go off, and how often, such that at the average distance to any supernova in the
galaxy, you get a supernova flux if 1361 W/m^2?


I think because this is a HS SF project, it is okay to make a lot of approximations and work towards an answer, but I also want to focus on at least
one aspect of the project, and make that much more accurate than the others. For example, I am happy to approximate that:
	1) a location in the galaxy is habitable if it gets 1361 W/m^2
	2) supernovae are evenly distributed throughout the galaxy
	3) dust extinction doesn't matter
	4) a planet can form anywhere in the galaxy

But, I'd like to put a significantly more detail into the actual supernova aspect of the project. For example, we can take actual SNe light curves and 
account for their actual shape and evolution in time, rather than just approximate that all supernovae have a luminosity of 10^40 erg/s for 50 days or 
whatever. We can also account for the diversity of supernovae that go off, like most SNe are type-ia, then we have type-ii, and so on. Then maybe also
account for the spectrum of the supernova. Like, talk about if flux on this planet is dominated by SNe, then where in the EM spectrum would it peak, and
what light would be most common on the surface of this planet. 

One thing that might become important in this project is-once everything is set up, and the student is messing around with how many supernovae go off (N)
and how frequently they go off (T), they might end up having to do a 2-parameter fit. It won't necessarily need to be super accurate, but we might need to
do something more fancy, or at least talk about how to vary N and T until the magic 1361 W/m^2 is found. I haven't done this project on my own yet (and I 
will soon), but I imagine this problem might happen:
	
	If our flux is too low, say 1000 W/m^2, then I could try to increase the flux by increasing N. This way, more supernovae go off, increasing the flux,
but if more go off at the same frequency as before, we may get the flux up to the required amount, but the flux itself might change too much over time. For 
example, if 1000 supernovae go off every 10 years. Then, this might result in getting 2000 W/m^2 half of the time, and 600 W/m^2 half of the time, so the 
average is close to our 1361 W/m^2, but it isn't useful because the actual flux is almost never that value. 


To introduce this project, we will have a series of labs that will introduce the background science and CS concepts necessary to carry out 
this project. These concepts are listed below:
Each lab will cover ~1 concept. It will start by introducing the concept, and the student can interact with the lab (it will probably be written as a 
jupyter notebook). Each lab will also be accompanied by a short lecture-a video recording of a human explaining the concept. Each lab will also have a
'final project'-a (very) short project that shows the student has understood the concept. The student always has the option of finishing this short project 
and skipping the lab. By design, each lab should take ~3 hrs for a high school student to do. (Not sure if this is too long--I could also see it taking like
30 minutes to do).


The series of labs will eventually be available to anyone publicly through my website: https://sites.psu.edu/karthikyadavalli/
and so if students (or honestly anyone with some interest in astronomy) want to work on these labs and get a more in-depth introduction to the concepts of 
astronomy, they can do so. The labs are not necessarily tied down to the science fair project. 

By design, these labs will be available to be run on the internet with no extra installation for the student. This website: https://mybinder.org/ allows one to run notebooks
that are on github directly in the browser with little to no debugging or IT support from the user. I have yet to fully play with this software, so it may still be buggy.


==Background Concepts==

=Math/Astro Concepts=

Flux and Luminosity
	Inv square distances
	Light Curves
	Habitable <==> you get 1361 W/m^2
	Bolometric versus various bands


Spectral Energy Distributions
	Blackbody curves, temperatures
	Examples of spectra
	
Calculating Luminosity and Flux output
	How to get total flux output from an LC
	How to get total flux output from SED

SNe
	What causes SNe?
	What kinds of SNe are there?
	What do LCs and SEDs of each SNa type look like



Stats
	Uniform Distributions
	Exponential Distribution
	Randomly Sampling from a distribution

=CS Concepts=

Functions

How to randomly sample using numpy

Other..stuff...


